---
avatar: Digha/9.jpg
author: Nita Das
date: 2017-05-14
topic: Travel
tags: [Digha]
comments: true
album: true
images:
      - path: Digha/2.jpg
        cap: Digha
      - path: Digha/3.jpg
        cap: Digha
      - path: Digha/5.jpg
        cap: Digha
      - path: Digha/6.jpg
        cap: Digha
      - path: Digha/7.jpg
        cap: Digha
      - path: Digha/8.jpg
        cap: Digha
      - path: Digha/9.jpg
        cap: Digha					  
---
{% include carousel.html %}

It was 7th July 2016 when we made up our mind for a short trip to Digha, a
beautiful sea beach in Midnapore, West Bengal, India. Sushovan, Rajat and I made
our way to Digha by motorbike along Kona Expressway. The journey was really
tiresome because of the excessive heat of the sun and occasional raining. It
generally takes 3-4 hours to reach Digha from Baruipara but It took us nearly 6
hours because of the rain.

We had our lunch in a roadside restaurant. The food was amazing specially the
fish curry was out of this world. We enjoyed every bit of our meal. We stayed in
a hotel there. We took a little rest then went out to explore the wonderful
scenery of mohona which was nearly 2km away from New Digha. We reached there
just after the sun set. The sky was still tinted. We could hear the roaring of
the restless sea from a little distance. Finally, we were in Mohona. It was
getting dark. We made our way to old Digha to enjoy the wrath of the waves. We
sat there for about two hours watching the restless sea. It was an unforgettable
moment especially when you are watching the waves keeping your head on your
loved one's shoulder. The atmosphere automatically makes you feel romantic. We
returned to our hotel after two hours and enjoyed our dinner with _Paneer
Masala_ and _Tawa Roti_. Needless to mention that the food was awesome and cheap
as well. First day of our Digha tour ends here.

Next morning, we got up early to experience the sun rise at Mohona but when we
reached there around 5.30 the sun was already up there. Sadly, we missed the
chance. But we made enough out of it. The morning was beautiful. The fishermen
were out on the open sea with there little boats to catch fish, crabs etc. I
must say that they are truly heroes. You need to be trully courageous to take
your tiny boat to the fierce sea. It feels really bad when I think about the
risk that they take every single day to earn their bread. Anyway, we returned to
our hotel because we wanted to go to the sea as early as possible. Yes, the sea
was calling us. So immediately after our breakfast we went to the Digha sea
beach. We could see a thick crowd everywhere. I wished it was a little less
crowded. But it was the time of Eid. So the crowd was expected. We played in the
water for some time then unfotunately we were compelled to come out of the water
due to some unpleasant circumstances. I felt bad because nobody can really enjoy
the waves during that short period. We came to our hotel and checked out.

It was the last day of our trip. Again we took our motorbikes and the last part
of our short trip began.  We went to Talsari. Again the beautiful sea, sand,
jhau tree and an unending beauty of nature.  The sea beach is quite narrow here
and also it was less crowded. You can get fresh crab, prawn, fish curry
everything here. Also, beautiful statue and show pieces made of sea shells are
really attractive. You can get simple pearl jewelry which are cheap and
beautiful but you have to bargain a lot. We made our way to Tajpur beach
hereafter. The sea is more fearful here. We spent a very little time there
enjoying the coconut water and _Kulfi_ (type of ice cream) . We went to
Mandarmoni from there.  You can never get tired of watching the playful
waves. We walked on the wet sand, felt the restless waves under our feet. We
spent about one hour then again our journey began. It was rainy season. So we
needed to be back soon. We waved goodbye to Digha promising we would be back
again.  I was already missing the sea, the sandy beach and everything. But we
had to come back. We took our lunch in a roadside restaurant. Then again started
moving. Then we halted in Kolaghat for a quick round of tea. You need to halt in
every two hours when you are traveling by motorbike.  We came back home around
7pm with a lot of beautiful memories.