## Introduction
Matrix reduction plays a fundamental role in the study of vector spaces and linear transformations. Reduction of a matrix to a *canonical* or [*normal form*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canonical_form) finds its use in almost all applied fields of science. While there are many different normal forms a matrix can be reduced to, a normal form is usually the product of much simpler and well-understood (e.g., diagonal, upper/lower triangular, etc) matrices. Since, the reduction process faithfully carries most of the *nice* properties of the original matrix, one can use a normal form to *infer* some of those properties from matrices with relatively simple structure.

The choice of the normal form can sometimes be demanded by a particular application, or be limited by the algebraic operations one is allowed to perform on the entries of the original matrix. Today we consider, for reduction, only $\mathbb Z$-matrices, i.e., matrices that are allowed to have only integer entries. As a consequence, the only permitted operations on the entries of such a matrix are *addition* and *multiplication*—but not *division*. We denote by $\mathcal{M}_{n,m}(\mathbb Z)$ the set of all integer matrices with $n$ rows and $m$ columns. In the special case of square matrices ($m=n$), we simply call it $\mathcal{M}_{m}(\mathbb Z)$ or $\mathcal{M}_{n}(\mathbb Z)$. Note that the identity matrix, $I_{m}$, of dimension $m$ is a $\mathbb Z$-matrix, i.e., $I_m\in\mathcal{M}_{m}(\mathbb Z)$.

### Permitted Matrix Operations
Although our hands are now tied by the restriction on the operations allowed on a matrix $A\in\mathcal{M}_{n,m}(\mathbb Z)$, we can still follow the usual definitions of matrix **addition**, **subtraction**, and **multiplication**— also **determinant** and **inverse** of a square matrix. For a square matrix $A\in\mathcal{M}_{n}(\mathbb Z)$, its determinant is defined the [usual way](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leibniz_formula_for_determinants). Also, $A$ is said to have an inverse $B\in\mathcal{M}_{n}(\mathbb Z)$ if $AB=BA=I_n$. The set of all invertible (square) matrices of dimension $n$ is denoted by $GL_{n}(\mathbb Z)$.